[Applause]
good morning president herok
it's an honor to welcome you not the
first time in Davos at a very critical
time for Israel and across the Middle
East looking at your efforts in
Israel allow me first to commend your
lifelong commitment to driving positive
change for your country you have
successfully bridged and connected the
gaps among diverse groups in Israeli
Society by identifying always common
ground and shared
values you have also been in the past an
out very outspoken about your commitment
to creating a lasting peace with the
Palestinians at the same time your
leadership has been instrumental in
advancing your Count's relations in the
Middle East and
Beyond notably you made
history as the first ever Israeli State
visit to the United Arab Emirates in
January 22 just one year ago Mr
President the
atrocities by Hamas on October
7th shook the world to the Core
and we will be interested to hear from
you how your country sees the conflict
going forward and what updates there are
on the release of
hostages top of our mind is also what
steps are being taken to maximize the
protection of civilians and the delivery
of humanitarian
Aid Mr
President thank you again for being
during those tough times with us and we
look very much forward hearing from
you after your speech we will have a a
conversation with my colleague bur and
the president of super economic form
thank
[Applause]
you thank you very much uh Professor
schab Claus uh very welcome uh Mr
president you've been uh in Davos uh
before but that was uh before the
atrocities of 7th of October the terror
attack uh that really hit Israel uh very
very badly so maybe uh let's start Mr
President uh with you sharing uh who is
uh the site guys who is the feelings now
among uh Israelis uh let's start there
our world was
shattered on 7th of October I can say
that we were celebrating a Jewish
holiday the Feast of the Bible the Torah
and um we were awaken into a huge shock
which didn't we didn't comprehend fully
and we haven't comprehended yet as a
nation it was 6:30 in the morning Sirens
all of a sudden blew up in the Silence
of the morning of a holiday where people
are on vacation little did we imagine
that we will see such terrible Horrors
that we will see something that Humanity
hasn't seen for Generations that we will
see something that has hit the Jewish
people in the state of Israel in the
highest numbers of Jews being killed
since the Holocaust and these are the
facts meaning we have seen a ities
barbarism sadism rape chopping of Heads
Burning of families in one of the houses
that was burned there are Barbed wires
around a whole block of Ash this is a
five people family and most of all the
hostages this is kir BAS kir today is
celebrating one year to his birth
exactly a year ago he was born to his
parent parents Shiri his mother and his
father yardan and his brother
arel
and his whereabouts are unknown we know
he was kidnapped by Kamas we know that
these barbaric terrorists have taken him
and his mother and his brother and his
father was in a different place we know
that they are going through hell and we
don't know their whereabouts and the
enemy who
supposedly Advocates that he has a cause
in life is basically advocating
jihadism celebrating and glorifying
Terror celebrating and glorifying the
Abduction of kir bibas and from here
this incredible World stage I call upon
the entire universe to work endlessly to
free fear and all the host hostages that
are there about 136 by now no thank you
very much uh Mr President thank you uh
for sharing this also as Professor
Schwab said in his introduction to you
and I known you also uh as a man of
Peace you always uh being uh someone
that has said that we need uh peace in
the Middle East and the war is still uh
ongoing in
Gaza how do you see an end of this war
war and also that's probably related uh
to the situation for the hostages there
are 100 hostages probably left yeah we
have 136 hostages who are there
including four from the
War um including Muslims including women
foreign
Nationals a young young girls older
women Holocaust
Survivors or connected to the Holocaust
so you have from one year old to 85 year
old people of Peace many of them were
Advocates of peace or dead lifshitz was
a major advocate of Peace he would work
in Gaza these communities who were
burned and and and uh ruined and brought
to ashes were communities that advocated
endlessly working for peace with the
Palestinians so if we look at the on a
birds eye view of the of the war that we
are seeing it's it's not only between
Israel and Kamas I will deal with Israel
and Kamas but the issue is and the world
has to face it point blank with no ifs
and buts there is an Empire of evil
emanating from tan spending billions of
dollars in arms and money and people's
well-being to derail the entire
stability of the world and the region
they've attacked the United States
forces two nights ago openly they have
proxies all over the region quietly
lurking to undermine any peace process
and any stability of the world and that
is exactly what we are seeing and they
have to be faced by a very strong
Coalition Hamas is one major element of
this jihadist Isis type culture who has
decided to launch a war against the
well-being of the only nation state of
the Jewish people butchering and
murdering Jews and Muslims alike in the
most barbaric way and we have to uproot
them and enable a better future for the
Palestinians who are our neighbors we
don't shy away from the fact that the
Palestinians are our neighbors but if
you ask an average Israeli now about his
mental or her mental state nobody in his
right mind is willing now to think about
what will be be the the solution of the
peace agreements because everybody wants
to know can we be promised real safety
in the future every Israeli wants to
know that he will not be attacked in the
same way from north or south or east you
have kisala in the
north armed up to its neck by Iran
financed by Iran and simply firing
ongoing and killing civilians and
killing soldiers and going to war with
Israel and then there is the world tends
to fall goes on but the truth is that we
are fighting a war for the entire
universe for the Free World I always say
if Israel was not there Europe will be
next because these barbaric jihadists
want to get all of us out of the region
and want to get all of Europe out of its
place as well and United United States
is next to so so this war is something
of an essential element in the history
of human
kind M Mr President um the war in Gaza
has now gone on for 100 days uh and I
think Israel is not immune uh either to
the international criticism on the
humanitarian situation uh in Gaza so
there are uh 2 million people now living
under very very uh tough conditions and
many of them didn't support Hamas so
what is your message to those that are
also no suffering because uh they didn't
even support Hamas so I have a message
to the to all our neighbors first of all
and especially to the Palestinians I've
been advocating and calling for peace
with our neighbors for years I said it
in my speech in a joint session of
Congress on the 19th of July just before
before the war terror is the main
impediment to moving towards peace you
cannot accept Terror directly or
indirectly you cannot justify it has to
be totally stopped and out of the
question and the problem is that there
are societies there are people when they
support Hamas they support Terror simple
barbaric Terror against lgbtq or against
any other human being or against anyone
who is Jewish Israeli or the like this
has to be a clear message to the world
terror is
unacceptable now we therefore went to
war because we see a war machine of a
humongous structure right in Gaza huge
cities of Terror underneath a a tunnels
that are higher than the size of the New
York Subway system that means billions
of dollars that had they gone to life
above ground we would have the most
beautiful region in the world and move
to peace but instead they opted to go to
Terror it was taken over byas in AUD in
2007 after we pulled out of Gaza
unilaterally to the last toota and from
then on it became a platform of Terror
for Iran and it's all its proxies and
from then on we had thousands of
missiles on our head
and from then on WE reached this
barbaric moment on this October 7th and
now we go in according to our right of
self-defense and in every house you find
Terror equipment you pull up in a in a
in a Liv in a bedroom you pull up the
bed you find a missile a missile
hundreds kilometers they can shoot
everywhere you go they can press a
button and you have missiles on Israel
like we had this week we pulled out from
the center we had missiles so we have to
understand if we have the right to
defend ourselves it's an inherent right
to
go catch the terrorist clean up the
houses and bring back their citizens
that is what we are trying to do I'm not
shying away from the human tragedy in
Gaza and you want to know something we
care we care we B it it it it it is pain
for us that our neighbors are suffering
so much but how else can we defend
ourselves if our enemies decided to
entrench themselves in an infrastructure
of Terror of unbelievable size and scope
it's a very complicated battle
everywhere we go in shops in living
rooms in bedrooms in schools in school
in schools you see we had even Isis
Flags in schools and symbols I presented
to the world Hitler's book mine C in in
living rooms and a recent brochure that
we found is directive by Hamas how to
run Summer Camps summer camps for
children titled you have to instill in
them the values of jihadism and
resistance which means Terror so let's
agree if the world wants to keep the
world order of post World War II in a
decent manner it has to fight Terror and
support fighting Terror and look at the
htis because here in the world economic
Forum the HTI issue is number one
priority because it raises the cost of
living for every family in the universe
a little tribe of 50,000 people amased
with weapons of an Empire I don't think
Norway has such weapons ballistic
missiles cruise missiles drones what the
hell is going on here what is this what
is we are unraveling a hug system of
evil that the world has to unite and say
we know it's difficult what we are with
Israel to get the things done and I'm
very um I welcome very much the fact
that there is a an international Armada
and Coalition fighting the hoties
because it's an issue that makes clear
that Terror cannot be acceptable anymore
so Mr President um some people uh would
say that uh was a mistake in
2005 uh when Chon pulled out of Gaza and
also opened up for elections and uh then
Hamas came uh to power but then of
course this also has led uh to uh less
momentum also for a two-state solution
because Hamas has been there if you look
at it uh in hind side should that have
been handled differently also from the
Israeli side I owe you an answer also on
the humanitarian issue we'll come back I
can okay cuz I I will be happy to relate
I would say that when we look and my
vision is towards the future we've tried
many many Alternatives in our dealings
with the
Palestinians we tried agreements and we
tried unilateral steps we tried a lot I
think now is the time that it the
demands also must be presented to the
Palestinians to show that they really
mean a vision of peace that requires
revamping
and reforms in the Palestinian Authority
and we cannot go back to the same good
old ritual of a fighting Hamas and God
forbid returning to another round of
battle we have to offer a future both to
Israelis and Palestinians and off a
future that we can live together that
Gaza can be well managed and looks for
forward to the world like our agreements
in the regional the regional agreements
like the Abraham Accord have projected
real prosperity and a real bright future
so Mr President what would you say to
those that say that Israel let Hamas uh
then uh win those elections and accepted
it there I understand a lot of the
criticism about that
clearly and on the other hand because
it's becoming now a major political
debate issue I would not want to allude
into that I would just say that it is
clear that we have to support those who
extend their hand for peace and are
willing to go with us to a brighter
future we cannot accept a vision we
cannot however let's take the
Palestinian Authority for that matter
okay cuz Hamas is out of the question we
have to make sure that they do not
glorify teror that they do not teach
their children to hate and hate Jews and
Israelis it cannot be that way and
therefore they must be faced with that
as well but otherwise of course we have
to go and negotiate with those who have
always um been potential Partners in the
for that so how do you see uh the end
game of this war in Gs I know um it is
hard but
War needs also uh to end do you see then
uh the PA and Fatam PLO taking over the
responsibility uh of Gaza or do you see
still Israeli IDF forces being in Gaza
or is it too early number first of all
you have War right now Israel has pulled
a substantial part of its forces in the
northern region and our focus is focused
mostly on the southern uh where we we
assume that some of Kamas leadership is
there we um should see a horizon of a
coalition of Nations who are willing to
commit to rebuilding Gaza in a way that
number one enables safety and well-being
of Israel number two enables safety and
wellbe of the Palestinians and brings a
future a different future to Gaza you
you need strong Western forces you need
strong Regional forces and I'm sure
there will also be a dialogue with
Palestinians from Gaza and Palestinians
and the way the Palestinian Authority
how is that cooked into a formula that
makes sense is exactly the issue that's
being discussed right now all over the
world in very very in intimate and
discussions we all understand there has
to be a vision and I think part of it
should be also going back to the
normalization process of Israel and its
neighbors in the region I think it's
part of a package and but that requires
to support Israel's efforts to undermine
the capabilities of Hamas and it's still
there Mr President let's come back uh to
the humanitarian situation problems
getting humanitarian support uh through
the Rafa cross
others are closed you wanted to
elaborate on that I think there is a
immediate need urgent need for food
water medicines uh and of course uh you
also want to make sure that this comes
to the civilians uh in uh gasa and it's
they that benefit from that so we
are committed from day one to upgrading
and assisting
the humanitarian Supply to Gaza as much
as possible first let's remind our dear
audience here that from day one Israel
according to the rules of international
humanitarian
law identified safe zone so that the
citizens who are uninvolved can move
there so that we can go in and uproot
the terror infrastructure that we are
unraveling now in huge quantities
however there are dire situations that
need to be met naturally under War zones
and as such from day one we have
committed to the entry of convoys of
trucks carrying humanitarian Aid I
myself went to the nitsana
Crossing with the media to see how we
are screening these trucks today we can
screen up to 400 trucks a day that means
about 20,000 tons of goods a day
unfortunately from nit it has to go to
Rafa and Kim Shalom which is another
passage we've opened up despite the risk
of ter order there
unfortunately so far the International
Community did not manage to meet the
ability to get to 400 trucks a day
usually or around 200 trucks a day there
was was a peak last week of 3115 we are
doing our best our best to enable entry
of huge quantities of humanitarian needs
to Gaza there are also about six field
hospitals two Marine floating hospitals
that we've enabled water supply which
we've enabled including desination
project of the United Arab Emirates who
been extremely uh helpful in in the
humanitarian situation as well now the
big problem apart from that is how do
you deliver the food the supplies all
around the Gaza Strip without being shot
out fired out in one of the main roots
or humanitarian routs underneath we've
unraveled huge tunnels of Terror so that
was stopped so we need an alternative
route and we are working on it closely
with the United Nations and all the
other agencies
closely I would also add that parallel
to that many Israelis are asking
themselves in many debates and correctly
so how come such huge humanitarian Aid
goes in and kir bias and all of the
other hostages are not even getting any
help at all in any way form or manner
now we are praying that the medication
that is is being supplied with France
and Qatar and the international agencies
and others in Gaza will reach them but
that's only the beginning Israelis are
asking themselves how come the uh the
hostages are not getting anything so I
I'm giving you
an interesting information that three
two days ago I've held an in Intimate
closed meeting with represent
resentatives of the Red
Cross in Israel and in the region who
came to a meeting um with families of
hostages and hostages who have returned
back to discuss the met the dire medical
situation of the hostages real D medical
situation real danger clear and present
danger to our
hostages uh that meeting was H very
emotional was very interesting we went
into indepth discussion about the
mechanism of how the Red Cross operates
and how it can help under the
limitations of this war zone and its
ability to have a dialogue with all
parties concerned I hope it will enhance
further the ability to help the hostages
it doesn't depend on us we have a very
cruel sadistic enemy
who has taken a decision to try to
torture the Israeli National psyche as
well as the hostages themselves no thank
you uh Mr President and I think uh the
future of the hostages and their freeing
is a key element also it is in um ending
uh the Gaza War but by the way it's an
important comment clearly the solution
and the release of the hostages is a key
element is this crisis people must must
not forget it Mr President um we known
each other uh for decades and I know you
always been uh also a man uh that has
been advocating for peace and uh you
even have been advocating for a
two-state solution when that was uh not
uh the key topic uh in uh
Israel today we saw this um terror
attack um on on the 7th of October
hitting Israel uh very hard uh and uh it
is um a terrible situation but then
reflecting on uh on the situation where
the last decade there has been no
momentum for the thinking around the
two-state solution because the argument
has been that you know we go to
Abraham's Accords things looks also uh
better with the
neighbors uh do you think that one one
underestimated uh the impact of not
having a political uh process for a
two-state solution and there is no new
momentum for that I know it's premature
and you said that yourself and I do
fully respect that because of of the war
but there needs to be a path also for
peace in the future and the path that
you were on resulted uh in this of
course the polarization in Israel made
all so Israel more vulnerable because
wasn't ready for this the focus was
maybe somewhere else I know there's a
lot of so you raise many topics here the
Israeli political system is always a
very um
interesting uh I would say full of
debates and arguments on so many topics
of the day and various
agendas I would not hit in hint in any
way directly or indirectly that this
terror attack is connected to any
political process the Hamas has always
objected to any political process with
the Palestinians I think it comes from
sheer jihadist ideology that wants to
eradicate Jews in Israel it's under
their Charter and it's under their
belief and perhaps at times we will may
have been naive enough to think that um
Hamas May tame itself or May
change its course it hasn't parallel to
that and and separately from that all
together there are many questions that
Israelis are asking themselves are
withdrawals Justified did it prove
itself these are legitimate
questions um is it true is it really
true that the Paradigm is necessarily
only withdrawal or pull out or things
like that when you pull out you get
Terror that's what they saw we pulled
out of Gaza we got Terror it's a it's a
paradigm that's clear we got 10,000
missiles on our head from the moment we
pulled out there was Terror before but
we have to admit there's Terror
afterwards so these are questions that
are legitimate to us
nonetheless looking for the big picture
in the future of course it's a must that
we must work as hard as possible to find
new ways and means to have a dialogue
with our neighbors the Palestinians and
offer a future but for that the basic
question of every Israeli will be
especially after October 7th what
guarantees our well-being and safety
this is a big thing this is an emotional
stage we're in and I think that when
Nations come forward and say two-state
solution they have to first deal with a
a preliminary question which is a core
question question for human beings are
we offered real safety what will be the
safety what's the outcome of any process
and can we guarantee safety for
ourselves and our people but Mr and I
must tell you in the last two years
before the October 7th there was a huge
wave of Terror that the world ignored
and mik and me we went going to beving
families who have suffered horrible
Terror attacks and nobody gave a damn in
the world so we have to understand
that's why I'm saying guys terror is off
the world has to fight Terror with no
mercy in order to Hope and to bring real
hope for the future well thank you Mr
President some would also argue then
that it was the situation the lack of
process that led uh also uh to this at
least it's it it is a fact that it took
place so it needs to be a different
situation moving forward you're saying
Hamas cannot be a part of it but there
were also warnings from ramala and the
PA to let Hamas then uh be uh conducting
the leadership uh in um in Gaza of
course but let me then uh go to the
there's a question why the the PA never
wanted to make an effort to get back to
Gaza but we can argue about it for a
long time but um of course Israel cannot
be in a situation you're saying
where there can be again missiles and
Terror being uh coming from Gaza and uh
also of course not uh from the West Bank
but looking then at how can security be
guaranteed uh in the future because it
wasn't guaranteed uh in what we had it
wasn't perfect either and now you have
to look into the future and the Arab
peace plan uh was saying when it was
launched that all the Arab countries
would then recognize Israel and they
would also contribute to a situation
where they can guarantee that there were
no um Terror or and the security of
Israel is that something that uh the
regional context and also supported by
the US and the EU that you will
contemplate after this is is that the
way to move forward so the regional
context is an axis for development
progress it's an access for a better
Horizon for all parties concerned and
clearly the Saudi option as part of it
as the whole normalization process is a
key to the ability to to exit from the
war into a New Horizon it's still
delicate it's fragile it will take a
long time but I think that this is
actually an
opportunity to move forward in the in in
in the region toward a better future I
view that as a very important
development I encourage all parties who
are discussing the option of
normalization with Saudi Arabia I
believe it is a game changer and it
follows suit with the courage of Nations
such as Egypt Jordan and the Abraham
Accords Nations such as the United Arab
Emirates Morocco the kingdom of Morocco
and the kingdom of Bak it will mean a
world change and let me add that
actually the trajectory before October
7th was the vision that was presented by
President Biden at the G20 Summit which
is the corridor the connectivity between
Israel and India which means a
connectivity between Europe and the
South a China Sea which means con
connectivity between United States and
Australia through a different path which
which is not the Pacific this is the
Grand Vision that Vision has been
derailed by an Empire of evil and will
go back undoubtedly in my mind because
of the desire of Nations to move to
peace we are a peace loving Nation we
want to get to peace Israelis are
striving for peace we care for our
neighbors but we are not willing to be
attacked and we want to preserve the
well-being and safety of our nation
Mr President uh this shows uh also um
perspective for peace and Reconciliation
in the future and I think you always
been a leader that has been arguing for
this but do you think uh there will be a
majority in Israel in theet that will uh
share this Vision when this war is over
I think that the the it is for the
Israelis to decide because our nation is
a democratic Nation with strong pillars
of democracy and spirit of debate is
very strong and these are legitimate
debates 247 we are immersed in this
tragedy and in the debate as to how to
exit from it what should be the solution
we understand that the particles of the
solution are complicated you dealing
with many political clocks and
considerations of Nations but I say from
the onset the basic values of Israel are
peace and security we have to answer
both and I think that the Israeli public
has always shown its maturity when they
know that they get something for real
Israelis lost trust in the peace
processes because they could see that to
terror is glorified by our neighbors
it's a key element in the discussion you
cannot shy away from it and on the other
hand we of course not shying away from
the of course not shying away from the
fact that there are 5 million
Palestinians and we will have to find
ways and means to deal with the issue
and get to a future but first and
foremost for that in order to change the
atmosphere we need to get the hostage
back we need to prevent Terror from
recurring and we should move on a
trajectory of normalization in the
region and in the middle of this South
Africa brings Israel into the
international court of justice in hey
what is your reaction to that so South
Africa is outrageous in its Behavior its
attacks on Israel are outrageous they
basically support the atrocities or and
barbarism that we have seen on October
7th they are supporting the the sexual H
gender based violence that we have seen
and we are calling upon the entire
universe to take action on that they are
supporting the barbaric sadistic attacks
on innocent civilians violating a
recognized International boundary and
the and and it's a game of hypoc
hypocrisy that South Africa um is using
the uh convention against genocide which
was brought and enacted by the
international family of Nations
following the worst atrocity of
humankind which is the holocost against
the Jews in World War II against the
state of Israel which is a nation state
of the Jewish people defending itself
under international law I hope and we
all hope that our case was heard well by
the justices of the international court
of justice in the Israel presented an
indepth and a very eloquent and
convincing case and I hope that our case
will be heard loud and clear and
decisions will follow suit and I call
upon the entire International Community
to stand with Israel and reject this
claim thank you Mr President uh last
question we do hope to be able to wish
you welcome back to the absolutely we're
always in a Year's uh time I was
identified as a global leader of
tomorrow already 30 years ago so you you
weren't so wrong you know Professor
Schwab always has a had a good uh nose
for uh then identifying a future uh
leaders last then question related to in
the year what is uh your hope and
aspiration for where we are when it
comes to Israel Gaza your relationship
with the Palestinians the Abrahams
Accords and also the regional uh
cooperation in the air what what are you
working towards so look Israel is a
country that is benefiting the world
with so many
incredible ideas and initiatives there
in the crowd there are people here who
have brought forward the most incredible
inventions and Innovations doing good
and helping people I will tell you a
story last year in puim it's like the
Halloween of of the Jewish people in the
celebration of puim M and I went to a
shed Hospital in Jerusalem to the
children's nephology department and uh
we go in and in the corridors and there
are little rooms and we go into each
room in one room there were allra
Orthodox parents with their kids with
their babies in another room there were
Orthodox Zionist orthodo in others there
were seculars in others there were
Palestinians and Israeli Arabs and there
was an incredible mixture of all
religions and belief in the last room I
go in there is a mother a father and a
baby
and I could see she is Arab and I asked
her where are you from and she said I am
from Gaza I asked her in Arabic where
you from she said I'm from Gaza she was
very shy with a little baby and I said
to her in Arabic I'm the president of
Israel and she she was quite shocked
that the leader the head of state walks
into a room and we just spoke and I said
to her I bless your child and I hope he
will live in
peace this child must and the family
must have been brought to the hospital
by volunteers from the the kibuts around
Gaza who used to volunteer and take them
to treatment and I believe this is the
vision that we have to project people
want to live together and they want to
live in peace they are the coexistence
in Israel of so many lives and beliefs
including between Palestinians and
Israelis is immense but we cannot allow
forces of evil who want to ruin this
vision and want to drive us into the
abys we can't allow them to win thank
you very much oh thank
[Applause]
you
[Music]
all